---
layout: post
title:  "Glenn Greenwald: Persoanl Gain Over Private Good"
date:   2014-04-29 13:18:08
categories: NSA
---

To date, I haven't agreed with any of the criticism Glenn Greenwald has faced from jouranlists and politicians accusing him of greedily cashing in on the trove of NSA documents that came into his hands via Edward Snowden.  However, with a <a href="https://twitter.com/ggreenwald/status/464083369513746432">tweet</a> that he published today, I believe he is now open to criticism.  Greenwald <a href="https://twitter.com/ggreenwald/status/464083369513746432">announced</a> that documents referred to in his forthcoming book, "No Place To Hide", will be made available to the public on the day of the book's publication, May 13, 2014. I suppose there's a number of ways to interpret this gesture.  A very cynical person might view Greenwald as using the timing of the release of the documents as an attempt to promote his book.  A person giving Greenwald the benefit of the doubt might view the decision to release this new batch of documents as evidence that Greenwald recognizess that the public should have access to the documents without having to purchase his book. I do believe that Greenwald believes that there is a public interest in having access to the documents, however, it also <a href="https://firstlook.org/theintercept/2014/03/23/facts-nsa-stories-reported/">seems clear from his previous blog posts</a>that Greenwald believes the Snowden documents require journalistic treatment, that context needs to be explained by the jouranlist to the public because the public doesn't and never will have access to all the documents that Greenwald has.  So, while Greenwald is providing free access to the documents referred to in his book, it doesn't appear that he's providing free access to the journalistic treatment of the documents that he believes we, the public, need to properly understand the documents.  We have to buy the book to get that.  